# Microsoft 2024

## General

13.02.2024 send over Vova

[https://jobs.careers.microsoft.com/global/en/share/1676130]

[ ] Review all areas in job descriptions


## Preparing

### Passion

- Technology is my passion and inspiration. Lately, as a consultant, I haven't encountered projects that make a significant impact as often. However, helping people realize their ideas and being on the cutting edge of engineering technology is what inspires me.
- Технологии  - моя страсть и вдохновение. Последнее время работая консультантом я не так часто сталкиваюсь с проектами которые вносят значительный вклад
Помогать же людям в осуществлении их идей и быть на крае инженерных технологий для меня вдохновение 

### Big fail

### Big success

### Other

Что вы будете делать, если не согласны с менеджером?
как разрешаете конфликты

## Bechevior questions

### Problems

### Fails/errors

### Good moments

### Managment


## Glassdoor

Online meeting with a technical recruiter, talked about relevant work experience and the hiring process. The next step is
three online technical interviews, at the same day. Leetcode style interview with 2 questions, system design interview and object oriented programming design interview.

Coin change: Find all combinations of coins https://leetcode.com/problems/coin-change-ii/

Postfix calculator: evaluate given formula https://leetcode.com/problems/evaluate-reverse-polish-notation/

OOP: Design Logger with several formats (json, xml) and writers (console, file). Use DEBUG, INFO, ERROR levels.

System Design: Implement public transportation system:  Buses send current locations Riders choose routes Riders get updates, alerts Data Analysts analyze traffic patterns System can suggest new routes based on historical data

Binary Search Tree and Dynamic Programming questions

The interview for the technical round usually consists of questions on DSA with some questions on OOPS concept. They also ask questions regarding basic Probability and Statistics. This is then followed by HR round where they ask behaviour questions. This is usually easy to answer with the STAR method.

First two rounds DSA and project questions asked. stack, array, graph question asked in technical interview

There are N balls positioned in a row. Each of them ls etther red or white. In one move we can swap two adjacent balls. We want to arrange all the red balls into a consistent segment. What is the minimum number of swaps needed?

You are given a string letters made of N English letters. Count the number of different letters that appear in both uppercase and lowercase where all lowercase occurrences of the given letter appear before any uppercase occurrence. For example, for letters = "aaAbcCABBc" the answer is 2. The condition is met for letters 'a' and b', but not for 'c.


Started off with easy leetcode style questions. The second round was more of a LLD OOP design round and the third round was just a discussion around my past project.

Merge two linked lists with a common point

Two quations:
 1 - two rws need to find the road with minumum value.
 2 - how many switches we can do in a row of three colors of ball to make a series of same color

 One home assignment to create a server with basic ddos protection

 Given a grid with. Numbers 1-n  Find the min value in which there is a way to cross from one side to another going from 1 to k tiles where k is the min value

 Designing a WhatsApp like system

 Valid parentheses & long island graph

 What problem did you recently solve in your programing or work experience

 given an array, return the smallest natural number that is not in the array

 Linked-list and array basic questions in first round. Trees and graphs related in the second round. Overall the difficulty is average.

 It was an ejoyable experience and i got asked lots fo interesting questions regarding OOP, and C#. The more of the interview was about dotnet and its ecosystem, including by not limited to asp.net, blazor, WPF,

 Not typical Leetcode questions, but rather something the interviewers came up themselves and directly from work. There was even graph and excel involved, very tricky, and I found myself not having enough time to do it after answering all the behavior questions they had. System design was asking to design something like google doc. Overall, I would say the bar was pretty high.

 Given an array of integers nums and an integer target, return indices of the two numbers such that they add up to target.

 Implement an LRU cache and explain design decisions

 Link list reversal

 Solve a sudoku efficiently using the appropriate algorithm

 Detect cycle in linked list and delete it

 The first interview was coding (data structure and algorithm). The next 3 interviews were behavioral with coding questions. The final interview was mainly behavioral and understanding my journey into software development.


 Deep dived into data structures and algorithms. Then we discussed into my experience and projects. Lots of questions on that.

 They asked that the performance be within O(n) boundaries.

 Q: The question was a variation of Longest Common Substring,  Q2: Construct a binary tree using post-order and in-order traversal arrays

 The question was similar to the Merge Intervals LeetCode question